ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS
Risks related to government regulations and the environment

Governmental actions and political instability may adversely affect Occidental’s businesses and results of operations.
Occidental’s businesses are subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the actions and decisions of many federal, state, local and international governments and political interests. As a result, Occidental faces risks of:

■New or amended laws and regulations, or new or different applications or interpretations of existing laws and regulations, including those related to drilling, manufacturing or production processes (including flaring and well stimulation techniques such as hydraulic fracturing and acidization), pipelines, labor and employment, taxes, royalty rates, permitted production rates, entitlements, import, export and use of raw materials, equipment or products, use or increased use of land, water and other natural resources, air emissions (including restrictions, taxes or fees on emissions of methane, CO2,or other substances), water recycling and disposal, waste minimization and disposal, public and occupational health and safety, the manufacturing of chemicals, asset integrity management, the marketing or export of commodities, security, environmental protection, and climate change-related and sustainability initiatives, all of which may restrict or prohibit activities of Occidental or its contractors or customers, increase Occidental’s costs or reduce demand for Occidental’s products.
■Violation of certain governmental laws and regulations, which may result in strict, joint and several liability and the imposition of significant administrative, civil or criminal fines and penalties and may also result in liability for remedial actions or assessments. Litigation, orders or other proceedings asserting strict, joint and several liability under such laws and regulations may seek to impose significant administrative, civil or criminal fines and penalties, damages or remedial actions or to require significant changes to, or even closure of, facilities or operations;
■Refusal of, or delay in, the extension or grant of exploration, development or production contracts; and
■Development delays and cost overruns due to approval delays for, or denial of, drilling, construction, environmental and other regulatory approvals, permits and authorizations
.
In November 2021, Congress passed and President Biden signed the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act. The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act reinstated the federal Superfund excise taxes on various chemicals that OxyChem manufactures. These excise taxes could lead to higher costs and impact margins. The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act also authorized the U.S. government to award grants for CCUS research, development and demonstration; carbon transport and storage infrastructure and permitting; carbon utilization and market development; and carbon removal. These grant programs were developed during 2022 and the awarding of grants in 2023 or future years could affect the selection and deployment of competing low-carbon technologies and the financing and market acceptance of proposed projects.
In August 2022, Congress passed and President Biden signed the Inflation Reduction Act, which expanded policy support and incentives for deployment of DAC, CCUS, hydrogen and other low-carbon projects, including several enhancements to federal tax credits. The Inflation Reduction Act also established an escalating methane emissions fee that the EPA will impose on certain upstream and midstream oil and gas operations per metric ton of methane emissions above certain thresholds commencing in 2024. The impact of this fee on Occidental will depend on implementing regulations that are expected to be issued in 2023.
In November 2021, the U.S. Department of the Interior released its Report on the Federal Oil and Gas Leasing Program, recommending increasing royalty rates and rents for drilling programs on federal public lands and in federal offshore waters, in addition to prioritizing leasing in areas with known resource potential and in proximity to existing oil and gas infrastructure and avoiding leasing in areas with competing uses such as recreation, wildlife habitat, conservation and historical and cultural resources. If the U.S. Department of the Interior were to issue regulations implementing these recommendations, Occidental’s subsidiaries could incur increased federal royalties and face restrictions on future potential drilling sites or infrastructure on federal lands.
In January 2022, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia invalidated the results of the BOEM oil and gas lease sale 257 in the Gulf of Mexico, in which an Occidental subsidiary was the high bidder on 30 additional new blocks located nearby to its existing host platforms, ruling that the BOEM’s environmental analysis of GHG emissions was inadequate under NEPA. The U.S. Department of the Interior, which oversees federal oil and gas development, is currently reviewing the decision. In August 2022, Congress reinstated the lease sale in the IRA, and the Occidental subsidiary received the leases in October 2022. Motions to dismiss are pending in the legal challenge to the lease sale. The BOEM’s authorization to hold lease sales expired in July 2022. The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management has issued a proposed 2023-2028 Five-Year Program which is subject to environmental review and public comment, and must be approved before future lease sales can occur.
In June 2022, advocacy groups filed a petition in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against the BLM seeking to invalidate numerous drilling permits for oil and gas wells on federal lands in New Mexico and Wyoming, and potentially other states, that were approved by the BLM during the Biden Administration, including certain permits obtained by Occidental subsidiaries. The plaintiffs allege that the BLM failed to comply with various statutes, including NEPA, the Endangered Species Act and the Federal Land Policy and Management Act, by not adequately addressing GHG emissions
10
 OXY 2022 FORM 10-K
 
oxy-20221231_g1.jpg

RISK FACTORS
 

and climate change in the environmental documents underlying the approvals. Occidental, other producers and multiple trade associations have intervened and the BLM is preparing an administrative record. Similar cases challenge permits issued to other operators with respect to the BLM’s consideration of GHG and other air emissions under NEPA and other statutes.
In January 2023, the White House Council on Environmental Quality issued interim guidance to federal agencies for evaluating GHG emissions under NEPA that applies to certain federal actions such as oil and gas leasing and permitting on federal lands. The interim guidance, which is subject to public comment until March 2023, recommends that agencies quantify a project’s reasonably foreseeable direct and indirect GHG emissions and assign a monetary impact of the GHGs by applying a social cost of carbon selected by the government.
Although the foregoing BOEM proposed Five-Year Program for offshore leasing, the White House Council on Environmental Quality guidance and lawsuits do not affect Occidental’s existing production or planned 2023 drilling and completions activity, restrictions or uncertainty regarding federal lease sales and permits and associated royalty and regulatory requirements could impact the future ability to develop resources efficiently on federal lands and in federal waters.
Significant areas of the Permian Basin in West Texas and Southeast New Mexico are subject to current or proposed land use restrictions under the Endangered Species Act. In August 2022, in response to a lawsuit by advocacy groups, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service agreed to decide before the end of June 2023 whether to add the Dunes Sagebrush Lizard to the list of threatened and endangered species. In November 2022, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service published a final rule listing the Lesser Prairie Chicken as endangered. Although Occidental has entered into voluntary conservation agreements with respect to these and other species and their associated habitat in the Permian Basin, listing of such species may impose significant operational requirements and costs and increase the potential for litigation and enforcement actions.
In January 2021, the COGCC adopted new regulations that impose siting requirements or “setbacks” on certain oil and gas drilling locations based on the distance of a proposed well pad to occupied structures. Pursuant to the regulations, well pads cannot be located within 500 feet of an occupied structure without the consent of the property owner. As part of the permitting process, the COGCC will consider a series of siting requirements for all drilling locations located between 500 feet and 2,000 feet of an occupied structure. Alternatively, the operator may seek a waiver from each owner and tenant within the designated distance. Occidental has a dedicated, multidisciplinary stakeholder relations team that conducts regulatory and community outreach with respect to its permit applications and operations in Colorado. Under these new regulations and through thoughtful surface location planning, Occidental has obtained COGCC approval for five Oil and Gas Development Plans, inclusive of 12 well pad and facility locations and approximately 150 wells. In addition to the approximately 150 wells approved through the Oil and Gas Development Plan process, during the third quarter of 2022, Occidental became the first oil and gas operator in Colorado to obtain COGCC approval for the first Comprehensive Area Plan under the new COGCC rules. This comprehensive plan will support nine well pads and approximately 140 new wells and will provide for substantial future development in a geographically remote area on Colorado’s eastern plains. Oil and Gas Development Plans associated with the Comprehensive Area Plan will be submitted in 2023. While, as of December 31, 2022, Occidental is permitted, or had permit applications submitted to applicable regulatory agencies, for nearly all planned 2023 drilling and completions activity in the DJ Basin, any significant delays could result in changes to our development program in the DJ Basin and our ability to establish new proved undeveloped locations by meeting the SEC’s “reasonably certain” threshold for adding PUD reserves.
Texas and New Mexico have experienced an increase in seismic activity, with events measuring magnitude 3 or greater in each state. In the fourth quarter of 2021, both states issued new guidelines for operators to prevent or mitigate seismic activity, focused on produced water disposal wells. These guidelines also require operators to implement response plans for activities within agency-designated seismic response areas. These states have curtailed water disposal and suspended permits in seismic response areas, particularly in deep disposal wells. Occidental does not operate deep disposal wells in the seismic response areas established by the state agencies to date, and its shallow disposal wells have been authorized to operate at agency-approved volume limits. Occidental also has central water treatment and recycling facilities that reduce the need for disposal of produced water. While Occidental’s ability to drill and complete wells or to dispose of surplus produced water has not been impacted by these seismic guidelines to date, increased seismicity, or regulatory responses to seismic events, could impact the location, timing and cost of Occidental’s development program and existing operations in seismic response areas.
In 2016, the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) was amended to expand the EPA’s authority to evaluate and regulate new and existing chemicals. The EPA is currently evaluating, or developing regulations with respect to, certain chemicals that OxyChem produces or uses in its chemical manufacturing operations. In April 2022, the EPA issued a proposed rule with respect to one chemical used in OxyChem’s manufacturing operations, but the EPA has not issued final regulations under the 2016 TSCA amendments with respect to any of these chemicals to date. Depending on the scope of any such final regulations, or of future TSCA regulations, OxyChem’s ability to use certain chemicals or to manufacture or sell certain of its products could be restricted and its costs could increase.
OXY 2022 FORM 10-K
11
 
oxy-20221231_g1.jpg

RISK FACTORS
 

In addition, Occidental has experienced and may continue to experience adverse consequences, such as risk of loss or production limitations, because certain of its international operations are located in countries affected by political instability, nationalizations, corruption, armed conflict, terrorism, insurgency, civil unrest, security problems, labor unrest, OPEC production restrictions, equipment import restrictions and sanctions. Exposure to such risks may increase if a greater percentage of Occidental’s future oil and gas production or revenue comes from international sources.

Climate change and further regulation of GHG and other air emissions may adversely affect Occidental’s businesses and results of operations.
Continuing political, social and industry attention to climate change has resulted in both existing and pending international agreements and national, regional and local legislation and regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions. The Biden Administration has identified climate change as a priority and has described a variety of avenues to prohibit or restrict oil and gas development activities in certain areas. In addition to the governmental actions described above, in February 2021, the Biden Administration established an Interagency Working Group to assign a price to the impact of each metric ton of GHG emissions that federal agencies could use to assess the benefits of more stringent GHG regulations and policy support for low-carbon projects. The Interagency Working Group set an interim value of $51 per metric ton of CO2 emissions at a 3% discount rate, and is expected to issue an updated value in April 2023.
In June 2021, Congress and President Biden reinstated the methane provisions of EPA’s 2012 and 2016 regulations, an action that Occidental supported. In November 2021, the White House Office of Domestic Climate Policy issued a U.S. Methane Emissions Reduction Action Plan that solicited public comment on the EPA’s proposed framework to expand federal regulation of methane and volatile organic compound emissions from a broader set of new upstream and midstream oil and gas operations, as well as various existing operations.
In November 2022, the EPA issued a supplemental proposal that would, through a combination of direct EPA regulation and state implementation plans, expand leak detection and repair programs, require rapid reporting and correction of larger emission sources, require emission controls for new and existing wells and facilities and certain types of activities, require replacement or conversion of certain emitting equipment such as pneumatic controllers, and encourage the use of advanced technologies to detect and measure methane emissions. Provisions applicable to emission sources built or modified after November 2021 would apply upon publication of the final rule, expected in 2023, provisions applicable to existing sources would take effect in 2028, and state plans to implement the rule would be due in 2025. The EPA has also requested public comments on the implementation of the IRA’s methane fee, and on the future expansion of the methane and volatile organic compound regulations to cover additional potential emission sources from abandoned but unplugged wells and certain pipeline and trucking activities. In November 2022, the BLM also proposed regulations to restrict venting and flaring from oil and gas operations on federal lands which are expected to be issued in 2023.
In June 2022, the EPA proposed to amend its GHG Reporting Rule to incorporate additional oil and gas sources and equipment, revise existing emissions estimation methodologies and calculations, and increase data collection, particularly for new or modified emissions sources. The EPA has proposed the amendments to apply to 2023 emissions that must be reported in the first quarter of 2024. These proposed amendments could increase Occidental’s reported estimated emissions from certain sources or types of equipment in its U.S. oil and gas operations. The EPA also proposed changes to the reporting that Occidental submits as a CO2 supplier and for the injection of CO2, as well as a new reporting category for sequestration of CO2 associated with enhanced oil recovery. The IRA also directed the EPA to update its GHG Reporting Rule to require greater use of measurements or empirical data, instead of emissions factors, by the third quarter of 2024.
Several state governments have also established rules aimed at reducing GHG emissions, some including GHG cap and trade programs and others directly regulating equipment that emits GHGs, including methane, and other compounds. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, including refineries and natural gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. Other U.S. states where Occidental operates, including Colorado, New Mexico and Texas, adopted or proposed new regulations, policies or strategies in 2021 and 2022 that increase inspection, recordkeeping, reporting, enforcement and controls on flaring, venting and equipment that emit methane and other compounds at oil and gas facilities. In certain instances, these states anticipate tying the processing and active status of oil and gas permits, including drilling permits, to air emissions and compliance. For example, Colorado has established GHG intensity targets for DJ Basin operators in 2025, 2027 and 2030, which Occidental currently meets.
These and other governmental actions relating to GHG and other air emissions are expected to require Occidental to incur increased operating and maintenance costs including higher rates charged by service providers and costs to purchase, operate and maintain emissions control systems, acquire emission allowances, pay taxes or fees for methane or carbon emissions and comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements; and they could prevent Occidental from conducting oil and gas development activities in certain areas. They could also promote the use of alternative sources of energy and thereby decrease demand for oil, NGL and natural gas and other products that Occidental’s businesses produce, and could also materially impact OLCV’s current or future operations and strategy. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, oil, NGL, natural gas or other products produced by Occidental’s businesses and lower the value of its reserves. Consequently, governmental actions designed to reduce GHG emissions could have an adverse effect on Occidental’s businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and reserves.
It is difficult to predict the timing, certainty and scope of such government actions and their ultimate effect on Occidental, which could depend on, among other things, the type and extent of GHG emissions reductions required, the availability and price of emission allowances or credits, the availability and price of alternative fuel sources, the energy sectors covered and
12
 OXY 2022 FORM 10-K
 
oxy-20221231_g1.jpg

RISK FACTORS
 

Occidental’s ability to recover the costs incurred through its operating agreements or the pricing of its oil, NGL, natural gas and other products and whether service providers are able to pass increased costs through to Occidental.
There also have been efforts in the investment community, including investment advisers, financial institutions and certain sovereign wealth, pension and endowment funds, as well as political actors and other stakeholders, promoting divestment of fossil fuel equities, reducing access to capital markets and pressuring lenders to limit funding or increase the cost of lending to companies engaged in the extraction of fossil fuel reserves. Additionally, institutional lenders who provide financing to oil and gas companies have become more attentive to sustainable lending practices, and some of them may substantially reduce, or elect not to provide, funding for oil and gas companies. Such environmental initiatives aimed at limiting climate change and reducing air emissions could adversely affect Occidental’s business activities, operations and ability to access capital, cause the market value of its securities to decrease or its cost of capital to increase, and adversely affect its reputation. Finally, increasing attention to climate change risks has resulted in an increased possibility of governmental investigations and additional private litigation against Occidental without regard to causation or its contribution to the asserted damage, which could increase its costs or otherwise adversely affect our businesses.

Compliance costs and liabilities associated with health, safety and environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on Occidental’s or its subsidiaries’ businesses, financial condition and results of operations.
Occidental and its subsidiaries and their respective operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to public and occupational health, safety and environmental protection, including those governing air and GHG emissions, water use and discharges, waste management and protection of wildlife and ecosystems. The requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. Costs of compliance with these laws and regulations are significant and can be unpredictable. These laws sometimes provide for strict liability for events that pose an impact or threat to public health and safety or to the environment, including for funding or performance of remediation and, in some cases, compensation for alleged personal injury, property damage, natural resource damages, punitive damages, civil penalties, injunctive relief and government oversight costs. Strict liability can render Occidental or its subsidiaries liable for damages without regard to their degree of care or fault. Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances or materials, and, as a result, Occidental or its subsidiaries could be liable for the actions of others.
Occidental and its subsidiaries use and generate hazardous substances or materials in their respective operations. In addition, many of their current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. Accordingly, Occidental or its subsidiaries have been, and could become, subject to significant liabilities relating to the investigation, assessment and remediation of potentially contaminated properties and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as a result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances or materials. As of the date of this filing, Occidental believes its range of reasonably possibly additional losses of its subsidiaries beyond those amounts currently recorded for environmental remediation could be up to $2.7 billion on a consolidated basis. For additional discussion of some of these matters, see Note 12 – Environmental Liabilities and Expenditures and Note 13 - Lawsuits, Claims, Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
In addition, stricter enforcement or changing interpretations of existing laws and regulations, the enactment of new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require Occidental or its subsidiaries to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on their respective businesses, financial condition and results of operations.

Occidental’s businesses may experience catastrophic events.
The occurrence of severe weather events such as hurricanes, floods, freezes and heat waves, droughts, earthquakes or other acts of nature, pandemics, well blowouts, fires, explosions, pipeline ruptures, chemical releases, oil releases, including maritime releases, releases into navigable waters and groundwater contamination, material or mechanical failure, power outages, industrial accidents, physical or cyber attacks, abnormally pressured or structured formations and other events that cause operations to cease or be curtailed may negatively affect Occidental’s businesses and the communities in which it operates. Coastal operations are particularly susceptible to disruption from severe weather events. Any of these risks could adversely affect Occidental’s ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses as a result of:

■Damage to and destruction of property and equipment, including property and equipment owned by third-parties which its operations rely upon;
■Damage to natural resources;
■Pollution and other environmental damage, including spillage or mishandling of recovered chemicals or fluids;
■Regulatory investigations, fines and penalties;
■Loss of well location, acreage, expected production and related reserves;
■Suspension or delay of its operations;
■Substantial liability claims; and
■Significant repair and remediation costs that increase its break-even economics.

OXY 2022 FORM 10-K
13
 
oxy-20221231_g1.jpg

RISK FACTORS
 

Third-party insurance may not provide adequate coverage or Occidental or its subsidiaries may be self-insured with respect to the related losses. In addition, under certain circumstances, Occidental or its subsidiaries may be liable for environmental conditions on properties that they currently own, lease or operate that were caused by previous owners or operators of those properties. As a result, Occidental or its subsidiaries may incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities for environmental matters for which they do not have insurance coverage, which could reduce or eliminate funds available for exploration, development, acquisitions or other investments in their respective businesses, or cause them to incur losses.

The COVID-19 pandemic and resulting adverse economic conditions have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on Occidental’s businesses and operations and financial condition.
The COVID-19 pandemic caused, and any resurgence of the pandemic could again cause, disrupted global supply chains and significant volatility in the financial markets. Current crude oil, NGL and natural gas demand and prices could be negatively impacted by a resurgence of COVID-19 cases, slow vaccine distribution in certain large international economies or the recurrence or tightening of travel restrictions and stay-at-home orders. If reduced demand for and lower prices of crude oil, NGL and natural gas persist for a prolonged period, Occidental’s operations, financial condition, cash flows, level of expenditures and the quantity of estimated proved reserves that may be attributed to its properties may be materially and adversely affected. Occidental has not experienced any significant disruptions as a result of any new COVID-19 variants, and it continues to monitor national, state and local government directives where we have operations or offices. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects Occidental’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments, many of which are outside of its control. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic may continue to adversely affect Occidental’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition, it may also have the effect of heightening the other risks described herein.

Risks related to Occidental’s businesses and operations

Volatile global and local commodity pricing strongly affect Occidental’s results of operations.
Occidental’s financial results correlate closely to the prices it obtains for its products, particularly oil and, to a lesser extent, NGL, natural gas and its chemical products.
Prices for oil, NGL and natural gas fluctuate widely. Historically, the markets for oil, NGL and natural gas have been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. If the prices of oil, NGL or natural gas continue to be volatile or decline, Occidental’s operations, financial condition, cash flows, level of expenditures and the quantity of estimated proved reserves that may be attributed to its properties may be materially and adversely affected. Prices are set by global and local market forces which are not in Occidental’s control. These factors include, among others:

■Worldwide and domestic supplies of, and demand for, oil, NGL, natural gas and refined products;
■The cost of exploring for, developing, producing, refining and marketing oil, NGL, natural gas and refined products;
■Operational impacts such as production disruptions, technological advances and regional market conditions, including available transportation capacity and infrastructure constraints in producing areas;
■Changes in weather patterns and climate;
■The impacts of the members of OPEC and other non-OPEC member-producing nations that may agree to and maintain production levels;
■The ongoing global impact of the Russia-Ukraine war;
■The worldwide military and political environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or outbreak of armed hostilities or acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere;
■The price and availability of and demand for alternative and competing fuels and emissions reducing technology;
■Technological advances affecting energy consumption and supply;
■Government policies and support and market demand for low-carbon technologies;
■Domestic and international governmental regulations and taxes, including those that restrict the export of hydrocarbons;
■Shareholder activism or activities by non-governmental organizations to restrict the exploration, development and production of oil, NGL and natural gas;
■Additional or increased nationalization and expropriation activities by international governments;
■The impact and uncertainty of world health events, including the COVID-19 pandemic and the spread of new variants;
■The effect of releases from the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve;
■Volatility in commodity markets;
■The effect of energy conservation efforts; and
■Global inventory levels and general economic conditions.

The long-term effects of these and other conditions on the prices of oil, NGL, natural gas and chemical products are uncertain and there can be no assurance that the demand or pricing for Occidental’s products will follow historic patterns in
14
 OXY 2022 FORM 10-K
 
oxy-20221231_g1.jpg

RISK FACTORS
 

the near term. Prolonged or substantial decline, or sustained market uncertainty, in these commodity prices may have the following effects on Occidental’s business:

■Adversely affect Occidental’s financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, ability to reduce debt, access to and cost of capital, and ability to finance planned capital expenditures, pay dividends and repurchase shares;
■Reduce the amount of oil, NGL and natural gas that Occidental can produce economically;
■Cause Occidental to delay or postpone some of its capital projects;
■Reduce Occidental’s revenues, operating income or cash flows;
■Reduce the amounts of Occidental’s estimated proved oil, NGL and natural gas reserves;
■Reduce the carrying value of Occidental’s oil and natural gas properties due to recognizing impairments of proved properties, unproved properties and exploration assets;
■Reduce the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to oil, NGL and natural gas reserves; and
■Adversely affect the ability of Occidental’s partners to fund their working interest capital requirements.

Generally, Occidental’s historical practice has been to remain exposed to the market prices of commodities. As of December 31, 2022, there were no active commodity hedges in place. Management may choose to put hedges in place in the future for oil, NGL and natural gas commodities. Commodity price risk management activities may prevent Occidental from fully benefiting from price increases and may expose it to regulatory, counterparty credit and other risks.
The prices obtained for Occidental’s chemical products correlate to the strength of the United States and global economies, as well as chemical industry expansion and contraction cycles. Occidental also depends on feedstocks and energy to produce chemicals, which are commodities subject to significant price fluctuations.

Occidental may experience delays, cost overruns, losses or other unrealized expectations in development efforts and exploration activities.
Oil, NGL and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond Occidental’s control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil, NGL and natural gas production. In its development and exploration activities, Occidental bears the risks of:

■Equipment failures;
■Construction delays;
■Escalating costs or competition for services, materials, supplies or labor;
■Increasing prices as a result of broad inflation
■Property or border disputes;
■Disappointing drilling results or reservoir performance;
■Title problems and other associated risks that may affect its ability to profitably grow production, replace reserves and achieve its targeted returns;
■Actions by third-party operators of its properties;
■Permit delays and costs of drilling wells on lands subject to complex development terms and circumstances; and
■Oil, NGL and natural gas gathering, transportation and processing availability, restrictions or limitations.

Exploration is inherently risky and is subject to delays, misinterpretation of geologic or engineering data, unexpected geologic conditions or finding reserves of disappointing quality or quantity, which may result in significant losses.

Claims, litigation, government investigations and other proceedings may adversely affect Occidental’s business, consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
Occidental is subject to actual and threatened claims, litigation, reviews, investigations, and other proceedings, including proceedings by governments and regulatory authorities, involving a wide range of issues, including regarding our drilling, manufacturing or production processes, commercial disputes, environmental compliance, public health and safety and taxes. The outcomes of these matters are inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties. Determining legal reserves or possible losses from such matters involves judgment and may not reflect the full range of uncertainties and unpredictable outcomes. Until the final resolution of such matters, Occidental may be exposed to losses in excess of the amount recorded, and such amounts could be material. Should any of our estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material adverse effect on Occidental’s business, consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
For additional discussion of some of these matters, see Note 12 – Environmental Liabilities and Expenditures and Note 13 - Lawsuits, Claims, Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

OXY 2022 FORM 10-K
15
 
oxy-20221231_g1.jpg

RISK FACTORS
 

Disruptions in the political, regulatory, economic, and social environments of the countries in which Occidental operates could adversely affect its reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Occidental’s non-US operations accounted for approximately 15% of its consolidated revenue in 2022, 16% in 2021 and 19% in 2020. Instability and unforeseen changes in any of the markets in which Occidental operates could result in business disruptions or operational challenges that may adversely affect the demand for Occidental’s products and services, or its reputation, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:

■    Uncertain or volatile political, social, and economic conditions;
■    Social unrest, acts of terrorism, war, or other armed conflict;
■    Public health crises and other catastrophic events, such as the COVID-19 pandemic;
■    Confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies;
■    Theft of, or lack of sufficient legal protection for, proprietary technology and other intellectual property;
■    Unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements, including changes in interpretation or enforcement of existing laws;
■    Restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital;
■    Currency exchange controls;
■    Inflation; and
■    Currency exchange, rate fluctuations and devaluations.

Occidental’s oil and gas business operates in highly competitive environments, which affect, among other things, its ability to source production and replace reserves.
Results of operations, reserves replacement and the level of oil and gas production depend, in part, on Occidental’s ability to profitably acquire additional reserves. Occidental has many competitors (including national oil companies), some of which: (i) are larger and better funded; (ii) may be willing to accept greater risks; (iii) have greater access to capital; (iv) have substantially larger staffs; or (v) have special competencies. Competition for access to reserves may make it more difficult to find attractive investment opportunities or require delay of reserve replacement efforts. Further, during periods of low product prices, any cash conservation efforts may delay production growth and reserve replacement efforts. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. Occidental’s failure to acquire properties, potentially grow production, replace reserves and attract and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on its cash flows and results of operations.
In addition, Occidental’s acquisition activities carry risks that it may: (i) not fully realize anticipated benefits due to less-than-expected reserves or production or changed circumstances, such as declines in oil, NGL and natural gas prices; (ii) bear unexpected integration costs or experience other integration difficulties; (iii) experience share price declines based on the market’s evaluation of the activity; or (iv) be subject to liabilities that are greater than anticipated.

Occidental’s oil and gas reserves are estimates based on professional judgments and may be subject to revision.
Reported oil and gas reserves are an estimate based on periodic review of reservoir characteristics and recoverability, including production decline rates, operating performance and economic feasibility at the prescribed weighted average commodity prices, future operating costs and capital expenditures, workover and remedial costs, assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies, the quantity, quality and interpretation of relevant data, taxes and availability of funds. The procedures and methods for estimating the reserves by Occidental’s internal engineers were reviewed by independent petroleum consultants; however, there are inherent uncertainties in estimating reserves. Actual production, revenues, expenditures, oil, NGL and natural gas prices and taxes with respect to Occidental’s reserves may vary from estimates and the variance may be material. Additional regulation around GHG emissions and future costs related to a less carbon-intensive economy could result in a shortened oil and gas reservoir reserve life as the underlying reserves become uneconomical. If Occidental were required to make significant negative reserve revisions, its results of operations and stock price could be adversely affected.
In addition, the discounted cash flows included in this Form 10-K should not be construed as the fair value of the reserves attributable to Occidental’s properties. The estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on an unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within the year in accordance with SEC regulations. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from SEC regulation-compliant prices and costs used for purposes of estimating future discounted net cash flows from proved reserves. Also, actual future net cash flows may differ from these discounted net cash flows due to the amount and timing of actual production, availability of financing for capital expenditures necessary to develop Occidental’s undeveloped reserves, supply and demand for oil, NGL and natural gas, increases or decreases in consumption of oil, NGL and natural gas and changes in governmental regulations or taxation.

16
 OXY 2022 FORM 10-K
 
oxy-20221231_g1.jpg

RISK FACTORS
 

Occidental’s future results could be adversely affected if it is unable to execute new business strategies effectively.
Occidental’s results of operations depend on the extent to which it can execute new business strategies effectively relative to both the societal transition to a less carbon-intensive economy and laws, regulations and governmental and private actions regarding the environment and climate change. Occidental’s strategies seek to advance its goals of achieving net-zero emissions (i) from its operations and energy use before 2040, with an ambition to do so before 2035, and (ii) from its total carbon inventory, including the use of its sold products, with an ambition to do so before 2050. Occidental’s strategies and goals are subject to business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond its control. Additionally, Occidental may be forced to develop or implement new technologies at substantial costs to achieve its strategies. Effective execution of these goals may require substantial new capital, which might not be available to Occidental in the amounts or at the times expected. In addition, raising such capital may increase its leverage or overall costs of doing business. These uncertainties and costs could cause Occidental to not be able to fully implement or realize the anticipated results and benefits of its business strategies.
Certain of Occidental’s emissions goals are dependent upon the successful implementation of new and existing technologies on an industrial scale. These technologies are in various stages of development or implementation and may require more capital, or take longer to develop, than currently expected. Further, these carbon management technologies are in competition with technologies being developed by other companies. The carbon management solutions are not well established and, while Occidental believes it has access to the technologies and the expertise necessary to develop these solutions on an industrial scale, Occidental may not ultimately succeed in achieving its GHG emissions reduction and net-zero goals.
Occidental’s strategy to include carbon management in its product line is also dependent upon demand for carbon sequestration and related CO2 removal credits, offsets or other attributes. If this market does not develop, or if the regulatory environment does not support carbon management activities, Occidental may not be successful in entering this industry.

Occidental’s aspirations, goals and initiatives related to carbon management and overall sustainability expose it to numerous risks.
Occidental continues to develop new technologies and strategies to position it to meet its emissions reduction and net-zero goals. Occidental’s efforts to research, establish, accomplish and accurately report on our emissions goals, targets and strategies expose it to numerous operational, reputational, financial, legal and other risks. Occidental’s ability to reach our target emissions is subject to a multitude of factors and conditions, many of which are out of its control. Examples of such factors include evolving government regulation and voluntary protocols for reporting or verification of emissions, capture or sequestration, the pace of changes in technology, the successful development and deployment of existing or new technologies and business solutions on a commercial scale, the availability, timing and cost of equipment, manufactured goods and services, and the availability of requisite financing and federal and state incentive programs.
In addition, historical, current and forward-looking sustainability-related statements may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve and assumptions that are subject to change in the future. There are multiple proposed or recently adopted changes to various GHG reporting regulations and protocols, including from the EPA, as noted earlier, as well as the SEC, the GHG Protocol and certain countries and states, as well as for additional controls, fees or taxes on emissions. In March 2022, for example, the SEC proposed climate disclosure rules that would require public companies to significantly increase disclosure of GHG emissions and strategies, targets, costs and risks associated with climate change and the energy transition. While Occidental has reported voluntarily on its net-zero pathway and associated goals and targets, as well as GHG emissions estimates, the proposed rules would require both significant additional disclosure and integration of such disclosure directly into financial reporting processes. Occidental and numerous other stakeholders submitted comments to the SEC on the proposed rules. The SEC is expected to issue final rules in 2023. Given the potential significance of these changes for estimation, reporting and verification of GHG emissions, establishing and reporting on goals targets, and estimating and disclosing costs of emissions reduction and the energy transition, Occidental may be required or elect to modify or update reported emissions and its current set of GHG goals and targets to reflect such new or changed regulations and protocols, although we currently expect to retain our overarching net-zero goals and to continue to implement emissions reduction plans that we believe will complement our investments in DAC, CCUS and other low-carbon technologies and infrastructure.
Occidental may face increased scrutiny from the investment community, customers, other stakeholders and the media related to its emissions reduction and net-zero goals and strategies. If Occidental’s emissions goals and strategies to achieve them do not meet evolving investor or other stakeholder expectations or standards, Occidental’s reputation, ability to attract and retain employees and attractiveness as an investment, business partner, supplier or acquirer could be negatively impacted. Similarly, Occidental’s failure or perceived failure to fulfill its emissions goals and targets, to comply with ethical, health, safety, environmental, social, governance or other standards, regulations, or expectations, or to satisfy various reporting standards with respect to these matters effectively could have the same negative impacts and further expose Occidental to government enforcement actions and private litigation. Even if Occidental achieves its goals, targets and objectives, it may not realize all of the benefits that it expected at the time the goals were established.

OXY 2022 FORM 10-K
17
 
oxy-20221231_g1.jpg

RISK FACTORS
 

Occidental has previously recorded impairments of its proved and unproved oil and gas properties and will continue to assess further impairments in the future.
Occidental has recorded impairments of its proved and unproved oil and gas properties resulting from prolonged declines in oil and gas prices and may record such impairments in the future. Past impairments included pre-tax impairment and related charges to both proved and unproved oil and gas properties and a lower of cost or net realizable value adjustment for crude inventory. If there is an adverse downturn of the macroeconomic conditions and if such downturn is expected to or does persist for a prolonged period of time, Occidental’s oil and gas properties may be subject to further testing for impairment, which could result in additional non-cash asset impairments. Such impairments could be material to the financial statements.
Future costs associated with reducing emissions and carbon impacts, as well as impacts resulting from other risk factors described herein, could lead to impairments in the future, if such costs significantly increase Occidental’s breakeven economics.

Occidental uses CO2 for its EOR operations. Occidental’s production from these operations may decline if Occidental is not able to obtain sufficient amounts of CO2.
Occidental’s CO2 EOR operations are critical to Occidental’s long-term strategy. Oil production from Occidental’s CO2 EOR projects depends largely on having access to sufficient amounts of naturally occurring or anthropogenic (human-made) CO2. Occidental’s ability to produce oil from its CO2 EOR projects would be hindered if the supply of CO2 was limited due to, among other things, problems with current CO2 producing wells and facilities, including compression equipment, catastrophic pipeline failure or the ability to economically purchase naturally occurring or anthropogenic CO2. This could have a material adverse effect on Occidental’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Future oil production from its CO2 EOR operations is dependent on the timing, volumes and location of CO2 injection and, in particular, Occidental’s ability to obtain sufficient volumes of CO2. Market conditions may cause the delay or cancellation of the development of naturally occurring CO2 sources or construction of plants that produce anthropogenic CO2 as a byproduct that can be purchased, thus limiting the amount of CO2 available for use in Occidental’s CO2 EOR operations.

Occidental is exposed to cyber-related risks.
The oil and gas industry is increasingly dependent on digital and industrial control technologies to conduct certain exploration, development and production activities. Occidental relies on digital and industrial control systems, related infrastructure, technologies and networks to run its business and to control and manage its oil and gas, chemicals, marketing and pipeline operations. Use of the internet, cloud services, mobile communication systems and other public networks exposes Occidental’s business and that of other third parties with whom Occidental does business to cyber attacks. Cyber attacks on businesses have escalated in recent years.
Information and industrial control technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security could disrupt our operations by causing delays, impeding processing of transactions and reporting financial results, leading to the unintentional disclosure of company, partner, customer or employee information or could damage our reputation. A cyber attack involving our information or industrial control systems and related infrastructure, or that of our business associates, could negatively impact our operations in a variety of ways, including, but not limited to, the following:

■Unauthorized access to seismic data, reserves information, strategic information or other sensitive or proprietary information could have a negative impact on Occidental’s ability to compete for oil and natural gas resources;
■Data corruption, communication or systems interruption or other operational disruption during drilling activities could result in delays and failure to reach the intended target or cause a drilling incident;
■Data corruption, communication or systems interruption or operational disruptions of production-related infrastructure could result in a loss of production or accidental discharge;
■A cyber attack on OxyChem’s operations could result in a disruption of the manufacturing and marketing of its products or a potential HSE hazard;
■A cyber attack on a vendor or service provider could result in supply chain disruptions, which could delay or halt our construction and development projects;
■A cyber attack on third-party gathering, pipeline, processing, terminal or other infrastructure systems could delay or prevent Occidental from producing, transporting, processing and marketing its production;
■A cyber attack involving commodities exchanges or financial institutions could slow or halt commodities trading, thus preventing Occidental from marketing its production or engaging in hedging activities;
■A cyber attack that halts activities at a power generation facility or refinery using natural gas as feedstock could have a significant impact on the natural gas market;
■A cyber attack on a communications network or power grid could cause operational disruption;
■A cyber attack on Occidental’s automated and surveillance systems could cause a loss in production and potential HSE hazards;
■A deliberate corruption of Occidental’s financial or operating data could result in events of non-compliance which could then lead to regulatory fines or penalties; and
■A cyber attack resulting in the loss or disclosure of, or damage to, Occidental’s or any of its customer’s or supplier’s data or confidential information could harm its business by damaging its reputation, subjecting Occidental to
18
 OXY 2022 FORM 10-K
 
oxy-20221231_g1.jpg

RISK FACTORS
 

potential financial or legal liability and requiring it to incur significant costs, including costs to repair or restore its systems and data or to take other remedial steps.

Although Occidental has implemented controls and multiple layers of security that it believes are reasonable to mitigate the risks of a cyber attack, there can be no assurance that such cyber security measures will be sufficient to prevent security breaches of its systems from occurring, and if a breach occurs, it may remain undetected for an extended period of time. Further, Occidental has no control over the comparable systems of the third parties with whom it does business. While Occidental has experienced cyber attacks in the past, Occidental has not suffered any material losses. However, if in the future Occidental’s cyber security measures are compromised or prove insufficient, the potential consequences to Occidental’s businesses and the communities in which it operates could be significant. As cyber attacks continue to evolve in magnitude and sophistication, Occidental may be required to expend additional resources in order to continue to enhance its cyber security measures and to investigate and remediate any digital and operational systems, related infrastructure, technologies and network security vulnerabilities, which would increase its costs. A system failure or data security breach, or a series of such failures or breaches, could have a material adverse effect on Occidental’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Occidental’s oil and gas reserve additions may not continue at the same rate and a failure to replace reserves may negatively affect Occidental’s business.
Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Unless Occidental conducts successful exploration or development activities, acquires properties containing proved reserves, or both, proved reserves will generally decline and negatively impact our business. The value of Occidental’s securities and its ability to raise capital will be adversely impacted if it is not able to replace reserves that are depleted by production or replace our declining production with new production by successfully allocating annual capital to maintain our reserves and production base. Occidental expects infill development projects, extensions, discoveries and improved recovery to continue as main sources for reserve additions but factors such as geology, government regulations and permits, the effectiveness of development plans and the ability to make the necessary capital investments or acquire capital are partially or fully outside management’s control and could cause results to differ materially from expectations.

Occidental’s operations and financial results could be significantly negatively impacted by its offshore operations.
Occidental is vulnerable to risks associated with offshore operations that could negatively impact its operations and financial results. Certain Occidental subsidiaries conduct offshore operations primarily in the Gulf of Mexico and their operations and financial results are vulnerable to certain unique risks associated with operating offshore, including conditions relating to the following:

■Hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions;
■Geological complexities and water depths associated with such operations;
■Limited number of partners available to participate in projects;
■Oilfield service costs and availability;
■Compliance with HSE and other laws and regulations;
■Terrorist attacks or piracy;
■Remediation and other costs and regulatory changes resulting from oil spills, emissions or releases of hazardous substances or materials;
■Failure of equipment or facilities; and
■Response capabilities for personnel, equipment or environmental incidents.

In addition, certain Occidental subsidiaries conduct some of their exploration in deep waters (greater than 1,000 feet) where operations, support services and decommissioning activities are more difficult and costly than in shallower waters. The deep waters in the Gulf of Mexico, as well as international deep-water locations, lack the physical and oilfield service infrastructure present in shallower waters. As a result, deep-water operations may require significant time between a discovery and the time that Occidental can market its production, thereby increasing the risk involved with these operations.

Anadarko’s Tronox settlement may not be deductible for income tax purposes; Occidental may be required to repay the tax refund Anadarko received in 2016 related to the deduction of the Tronox settlement payment, which may have a material adverse effect on Occidental’s results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.
In April 2014, Anadarko and Kerr-McGee entered into a settlement agreement for $5.2 billion, resolving, among other things, all claims that were or could have been asserted in connection with the May 2009 lawsuit filed by Tronox against Anadarko and Kerr-McGee in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. After the settlement became effective in January 2015, Anadarko paid $5.2 billion and deducted this payment on its 2015 federal income tax return. Due
OXY 2022 FORM 10-K
19
 
oxy-20221231_g1.jpg

RISK FACTORS
 

to the deduction, Anadarko had a net operating loss carryback for 2015, which resulted in a tentative tax refund of $881 million in 2016.
The IRS audited Anadarko’s tax position regarding the deductibility of the payment and in September 2018 issued a statutory notice of deficiency rejecting Anadarko’s refund claim. Anadarko disagreed and filed a petition with the U.S. Tax Court to dispute the disallowance in November 2018. In December 2022, the parties filed competing motions for partial summary judgment. The motions are not fully briefed. Trial is set for May 2023. Occidental expects to continue pursuing resolution. In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 740’s guidance on the accounting for uncertain tax positions, as of December 31, 2022, Occidental had recorded no tax benefit on the tentative cash tax refund. If the payment is ultimately determined not to be deductible, Occidental would be required to repay the tentative refund received plus interest totaling approximately $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2022, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and consolidated balance sheets. Occidental’s Consolidated Financial Statements include an uncertain tax position for the approximate repayment of $1.4 billion ($1.4 billion federal and $28 million in state taxes) plus accrued interest of approximately $415 million. This amount is not covered by insurance. For additional information on income taxes, see Note 10 - Income Taxes in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

Occidental’s indebtedness may make it more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in its businesses. Downgrades in Occidental’s credit ratings or future increases in interest rates may negatively impact Occidental’s cost of capital, and ability to access capital markets.
Occidental’s level of indebtedness could increase its vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, economic downturns and adverse developments in its businesses or limit Occidental’s flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in its business and the industries in which it operates. From time to time, Occidental has relied on access to capital markets for funding. Occidental’s ability to obtain additional financing or refinancing will be subject to a number of factors, including general economic and market conditions, Occidental’s performance, investor sentiment and its ability to meet existing debt compliance requirements. If Occidental is unable to generate sufficient funds from its operations to satisfy its capital requirements, including its existing debt obligations, or to raise additional capital on acceptable terms, Occidental’s business could be adversely affected. As of the date of this filing, Occidental’s long-term debt was rated BB+ by Fitch Ratings, Ba1 by Moody’s Investors Service and BB+ by Standard and Poor’s.

One of Occidental’s subsidiaries acts as the general partner of WES, a publicly traded master limited partnership, which may involve potential legal liability.
One of Occidental’s subsidiaries acts as the general partner of WES, a publicly traded master limited partnership. Its general partner interest in WES may increase the possibility that it could be subject to claims of breach of duties owed to WES, including claims of conflict of interest. Any such claims could increase Occidental’s costs and any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on Occidental’s financial condition, operating results or cash flows.