ITEM 1A. Risk Factors.
Investing in our securities involves risk. In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider the following risk factors before investing in our securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe not to be material may also adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.
Risks Related to Our Acquisition of the WarnerMedia Business
We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant costs following the Merger.
On April 8, 2022, we completed the Merger in which we acquired the business, operations and activities that constitute the WarnerMedia Business from AT&T. We incurred significant costs in connection with the signing and closing of the Merger, and expect to continue to incur approximately $1.0 - $1.5 billion of cash costs relating to organization restructuring, facility consolidation activities and other contract termination costs, which costs we believe will be necessary to realize the anticipated cost synergies from the Merger. Additional unanticipated costs may also be incurred in connection with the integration of the legacy business, operations and activities of Discovery prior to the Merger (the “Discovery Business”) and the WarnerMedia Business. No assurances of the timing or amount of synergies able to be captured, or the timing or amount of costs necessary to achieve those synergies, can be provided. Some of the factors affecting the costs associated with the integration phase of the Merger include the resources required in integrating the WarnerMedia Business with the Discovery Business and the length of time during which transition services are provided to us by AT&T. The amount and timing of any such charges could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
If the results of operations of the WarnerMedia Business following the Merger continue to be below management’s expectations, we may not achieve the increases in revenues and net earnings that management expects as a result of the Merger.
In connection with our comprehensive business and strategic review which commenced following the Merger, we determined that certain WarnerMedia Business budget projections that were made available to us prior to the closing of the Merger varied from what we now view as the WarnerMedia Business’s baseline post-closing. Because we derive a majority of our revenues and net earnings from the WarnerMedia Business, if the results of operations of the WarnerMedia Business continue to be below management’s expectations, we may not achieve the increases in revenue and net earnings expected as a result of the Merger. Significant factors that could negatively impact the results of operations of the WarnerMedia Business, and therefore harm our results of operations, include:
•more intense competitive pressure from existing or new competitors;
•fluctuations in the exchange rates in the jurisdictions in which the WarnerMedia Business operates;
•increases in promotional and operating costs for the WarnerMedia Business;
•a decline in the viewership or consumption of content provided by the WarnerMedia Business; and
•additional material variations in the results of operations of the WarnerMedia Business from expectations or projections of such results of operations, any or all of which may prove to be incorrect or inaccurate.
We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger because of difficulties related to integration, the achievement of such synergies, and other challenges faced by the combined Company.
The Discovery Business and the WarnerMedia Business previously operated independently, and there can be no assurances that our businesses can be combined in a manner that allows for the achievement of any or all anticipated financial or other benefits. If we are not able to successfully integrate the WarnerMedia Business with the Discovery Business, the anticipated benefits of the Merger may not be realized fully, if at all, or may take longer than expected to be realized. Our integration efforts could result in a loss of key Discovery Business or WarnerMedia Business employees, loss of customers, disruption of either or both of the Discovery Business’s or the WarnerMedia Business’s ongoing businesses or unexpected issues, higher than expected costs and an overall post-completion process that takes longer than originally anticipated. Specifically, the following issues, among others, must be addressed in combining the Discovery Business and the WarnerMedia Business in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger:
•integrating the Discovery Business and the WarnerMedia Business in the time frame currently anticipated;
•maintaining existing agreements with customers, distributors, providers, talent and vendors and avoiding delays in entering into new agreements with prospective customers, distributors, providers, talent and vendors;
•integrating the businesses’ administrative, accounting and information technology infrastructure;
•integrating employees and attracting and retaining key personnel, including talent;
13

•managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company, particularly in light of the Discovery Business’s limited prior experience in running a studio or producing scripted content;
•aligning the businesses’ DTC streaming services for global customers; and
•resolving potential unknown liabilities, adverse consequences and unforeseen increased expenses associated with the Merger.
Even if the Discovery Business and the WarnerMedia Business are integrated successfully, the full benefits of the Merger may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame or at all.
Further, following the Merger, the size and complexity of the business of the combined Company increased significantly. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage this expanded business, which could pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new, complex operations and associated increased costs. All of these factors could materially adversely affect our stock price, business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
Our consolidated indebtedness increased substantially following completion of the Merger. We have a significant amount of debt and may incur significant amounts of additional debt, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to react to changes in our business.
Our consolidated indebtedness as of December 31, 2022 was approximately $49.3 billion, of which $363 million is current. We had outstanding debt prior to the Merger and upon completion of the Merger, we became responsible for approximately $41.5 billion of additional debt (at par value), including debt that was issued by WarnerMedia Holdings, Inc. in connection with its separation from AT&T as well as preexisting debt of the WarnerMedia Business. In addition, we have the ability to draw down on a $6.0 billion revolving credit facility in the ordinary course, which would have the effect of further increasing our debt to the extent drawn. We are also permitted, subject to certain restrictions under our existing debt agreements, to obtain additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs. This would have the effect of further increasing our leverage.
As a result of our increased indebtedness, our corporate or debt-specific credit rating could be downgraded, which may increase our borrowing costs or subject us to more restrictive covenants when we incur new debt in the future, which could reduce profitability and diminish operational flexibility.
Our substantial leverage could have significant negative consequences on our financial condition and results of operations, including:
•impairing our ability to meet one or more of the financial ratio covenants contained in our term loan and revolving credit facility or to generate cash sufficient to pay the interest or principal, which could result in an acceleration of some or all of our outstanding debt in the event that an uncured default occurs;
•increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and market conditions;
•limiting our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing;
•requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for other purposes such as capital expenditures, share repurchases, investments, and mergers and acquisitions;
•requiring us to sell debt or equity securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations;
•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we compete; and
•placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with less leveraged competitors and competitors that may have better access to capital resources.
We have recognized, and could continue to recognize impairment charges, related to goodwill and other intangible assets.
The Merger added a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets to our consolidated balance sheet. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, management periodically assesses these assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, including the ongoing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, underperformance of the WarnerMedia Business as compared to management's initial expectations, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, including in connection with our ongoing restructuring initiatives, divestitures and market capitalization declines may impair goodwill and other intangible assets. Any charges relating to such impairments could materially adversely affect our results of operations in the periods recognized.
14

We may be unable to provide (or obtain from third parties) the same types and level of services to the WarnerMedia Business that historically have been provided (or obtained from third parties) by AT&T or may be unable to provide (or obtain) them at the same cost.
Prior to the Merger, as part of a separate reporting segment of AT&T, the WarnerMedia Business was able to receive services from AT&T and was able to receive benefits from being a part of AT&T, including benefiting from AT&T’s financial strength, extensive business relationships and purchasing power in negotiating third party services. Following the Merger, the WarnerMedia Business is not able to leverage AT&T’s financial strength, does not have access to AT&T’s extensive business relationships and may not have purchasing power similar to what it had benefited from by being a part of AT&T prior to the Merger. Following the Merger, we have had to replace the services previously provided, or obtained from third parties, by AT&T by either providing them internally or obtaining them from unaffiliated third parties, including AT&T. These services include AT&T bundling HBO Max with some of its wireless and broadband offerings, and certain administrative and operating functions of which effective and appropriate performance is critical to the operations of the WarnerMedia Business and the Company as a whole following the Merger. AT&T is providing certain services on a transitional basis pursuant to a Transition Services Agreement (the “TSA”) with us. The duration of such services is subject to a limited term set out in the Services Schedule to the TSA. We may have difficulty enforcing the terms of the agreements governing the provision of these services or be unable to replace these services in a timely manner or on terms and conditions as favorable as those the WarnerMedia Business currently receives from AT&T under the TSA or from third party contracts that were obtained by AT&T prior to the Merger for the WarnerMedia Business. The costs for these services, or the costs associated with replacing these services, could in the aggregate be higher than the combination of our historical costs and those reflected in the historical financial statements of the WarnerMedia Business. If we are unable to replace the services provided by AT&T or obtained from third parties by AT&T or are unable to replace them at the same cost or are delayed in replacing the services provided by AT&T or obtained from third parties by AT&T, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially adversely impacted by increasing costs or decreasing revenues.
We are engaged in legal proceedings related to the Merger and could be subject to additional legal proceedings related to the Merger, the outcomes of which are uncertain and could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Since the closing of the Merger, multiple putative class action lawsuits relating to the Merger have been filed on behalf of stockholders of the Company against the Company and/or certain of our directors and executive officers seeking damages and other relief. Additional lawsuits relating to the Merger, or disputes arising out of definitive agreements entered into in connection with the Merger, could arise in the future. The outcomes of Merger-related lawsuits are uncertain and even if we ultimately prevail in a lawsuit, defending against the claim could be time-consuming and costly and divert our management’s attention and resources away from our business, which could negatively and materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Risks Related to Our Business and Industry
Our businesses operate in highly competitive industries and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer.
The media and entertainment industries in which we compete for viewers, distribution and advertising are highly competitive. We compete with other media and entertainment companies to attract creative talent and produce high-quality content and to make our content available to audiences on a variety of platforms.
Our traditional linear programming networks face increased competitive pressure from other television networks, subscription based streaming services, including our HBO Max and discovery+ products, and other forms of news, information and media entertainment, such as feature films, interactive games and entertainment, user-generated content, live sports and other events, social media and diverse on-line and mobile activities and other digital entertainment platforms and offerings all vying for consumer time, attention and discretionary spending. There has also been a shift in consumer behavior related to changes in content distribution and technological innovation, including a preference by consumers to watch content on demand and a decline in subscribers to the traditional cable bundle. The COVID-19 pandemic appears to have accelerated some existing trends. Lockdowns during the pandemic, for example, enabled households to experiment with digital offerings including subscription video-on-demand or to stack multiple streaming subscriptions. Although we expect these trends to continue in the coming years, our viewership and the profitability of our business may be impacted in unpredictable ways as a result thereof. Moreover, there can be no assurance of the continuation of these trends.
15

In order to respond to changing consumer behavior, increasing preferences to watch on demand, subscription declines and changes in content distribution models in our industry, we have invested in, developed and launched DTC products including our HBO Max and discovery+ products. We have incurred and will likely continue to incur significant costs to develop and market HBO Max and discovery+, including costs related to developing and implementing a go-to-market strategy for our DTC business that aligns our HBO Max and discovery+ products. There can be no assurance, however, that consumers and advertisers will embrace our offerings or that subscribers will activate or renew a subscription, particularly given the increase in DTC products in the marketplace. The WarnerMedia Business has in the past, and we could in the future, incur significant restructuring costs related to DTC products due to the rapidly and continuously-evolving DTC environment, in which consumer satisfaction, scale, differentiation and capacity to invest in content are crucial to streaming success.
Each distribution model has different risks and economic consequences for us, so the rapid evolution of consumer preferences may have an economic impact that is not ultimately predictable. Distribution windows are also evolving, potentially affecting revenues from other windows. If we are not able to access our targeted audience with appealing category-specific content and adapt to new technologies, distribution methods and platforms and business models, we may experience a decline in viewership and ultimately a decline in the demand for our programming, which could lead to lower distribution and advertising revenues, materially and adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations.
The success of our business depends on the acceptance of our content and brands by our U.S. and foreign viewers, which may be unpredictable and volatile.
The production and distribution of television programs, feature films, sports and news content are inherently risky businesses because the revenue we derive and our ability to distribute our content depend primarily on consumer tastes and preferences that often change in unpredictable ways. Our success depends on our ability to consistently create and acquire content that meets the changing preferences of viewers in general, in special interest groups, in specific demographic categories and in various international marketplaces. For example, generally, feature films that perform well upon initial release also have commercial success in subsequent distribution channels. Therefore, the underperformance of a feature film, especially an “event” film, upon its public release can result in lower-than-expected revenues for our business which could limit our ability to create future content. We need to invest substantial amounts in the production or acquisition and marketing of our television programs, feature films, sports and news content before we learn whether such content will reach anticipated levels of popularity with consumers. Failing to gain the level of audience acceptance we expect for our content may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.
The commercial success of our content also depends upon the quality and acceptance of competing content available in the applicable marketplace. Other factors, including the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, our ability to maintain or develop strong brand awareness and target key audiences, general economic conditions, piracy, and growing competition for consumer discretionary spending, time and attention may also affect the audience for our content. Audience sizes for our media networks are critical factors affecting both the volume and pricing of advertising revenue that we receive with respect to advertising-supported services, and the extent of distribution and penetration and the license fees we receive under agreements with our distributors with respect to subscription-based services. The appeal, success and performance of our content with consumers, as well as with third-party licensees and other distribution partners, are also critical factors that can affect the revenue that we receive with respect to our content-related business.
Consequently, reduced public acceptance of our television programs, feature films, sports and news content or negative publicity regarding individuals or operations associated with our content or brands may decrease our audience share and customer/viewer reach and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
16

If our DTC products fail to attract and retain subscribers, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted.
Our HBO Max and discovery+ offerings are subscription-based streaming products and are among many such services in a crowded and competitive landscape. Their success will be largely dependent on our ability to initially attract, and ultimately retain, subscribers. If we are unable to effectively market our DTC products or if consumers do not perceive the pricing and related features of our DTC products to be of value versus our competitors, we may not be able to attract and retain subscribers. In particular, decreases in consumer discretionary spending where our DTC products are offered may reduce our ability to attract and retain subscribers to our services, which could have a negative impact on our business. Relatedly, a decrease in viewing subscribers on our advertising-supported DTC products could also have a negative impact on the rates we are able to charge advertisers for advertising-supported services. The ability to attract and retain subscribers will also depend in part on our ability to provide compelling content choices that are differentiated from that of our competitors and that are more attractive than other sources of entertainment that consumers could choose in their free time. Furthermore, our ability to provide a quality subscriber experience and our relative service levels, may also impact our ability to attract and retain subscribers. If existing subscribers, including those who receive subscriptions through wireless and broadband bundling arrangements with third parties, cancel or discontinue their subscriptions for any reason, including as a result of selecting an alternative wireless or broadband plan that does not bundle our products, or due to the availability of competing offerings that are perceived to offer greater value compared to our DTC products, our business may be adversely affected. We would need to add new subscribers both to replace subscribers who cancel or discontinue their subscriptions and to grow our business. If we are unable to attract and retain subscribers and offset the losses of subscribers who cancel or discontinue their subscriptions to our DTC products, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.
Global economic conditions and other global events may have an adverse effect on our business.
Our business is significantly affected by prevailing economic conditions, including inflation and fluctuations in interest rates, and by disruptions to financial markets. We derive substantial revenues from advertisers, and these expenditures are sensitive to general economic conditions and consumer buying patterns. Financial instability or a general decline in economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries where our content is distributed could adversely affect the businesses of our partners who might reduce their spending on advertising, which could result in a decrease in advertising rates and volume and our advertising revenues.
Decreases in consumer discretionary spending in the U.S. and other countries where our networks are distributed may affect cable television and other video service subscriptions, in particular with respect to digital service tiers on which certain of our programming networks are carried. This could lead to a decrease in the number of subscribers receiving our programming from multi-channel video programming distributors, which could have a negative impact on our viewing subscribers and distribution revenues. Similarly, a decrease in viewing subscribers would also have a negative impact on the number of viewers actually watching the programs on our programming networks, which could also impact the rates we are able to charge advertisers.
A downturn in global economic conditions, such as those caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, can also negatively affect our current and potential customers, vendors and others with whom we do business and their ability to satisfy their obligations to us. The general worsening of current global economic conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, and the worsening of economic conditions in certain parts of the world, specifically, could impact the expansion and success of our businesses in such areas.
Our business is also impacted by other global events, including political, social, or economic unrest, terrorism, hostilities, or pandemics. For example, the COVID-19 pandemic negatively impacted movie theater attendance by consumers as movie theaters reduced seating capacity or closed for an extended period of time. There is no assurance that movie theater attendance will return to pre-pandemic levels or increase from current levels. Other global events in the future may impact our ability to distribute content or our viewership, which could negatively impact our business.
17

We invest significant resources to acquire licenses to produce sports programming and there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in our efforts to obtain licenses to recurring sports events or recoup our investment when the content is distributed.
We face significant competition to acquire licenses to sports programming, which leads to significant expenditure of funds and resources. As a result of an increasing number of market entrants in the programming space, we have seen upward pressure on programming costs in recent years, particularly in connection with the licensing and acquisition of sports content from third parties. We may also be impacted by such upward pressures driven by increasing investment in programming by competitors. In certain international markets, regulations concerning content quotas or content investment requirements may be a further factor driving increasing programming costs. In addition, businesses, including ours, that offer multiple services, or that may be vertically integrated and offer both video distribution and programming content, may face closer regulatory review from the competition authorities in the countries in which we currently have operations. If our distributors have to pay higher rates to holders of sports broadcasting rights, it might be difficult for us to negotiate higher rates for distribution of our networks. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors to obtain licenses to recurring sports events, or that increasing competition for programming licenses and regulatory review from competition authorities will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
We also operate regional sports networks and have rights agreements with various professional sports teams that provide the regional sports networks with certain rights to produce and distribute their games. The revenue we derive from the regional sports networks can depend upon a number of factors including consumer tastes and preferences, the strength of advertising markets, subscription levels and rates for programming, and the size of viewer audiences.
There can also be no assurance that we will recoup our investment in sports programming. The impact of these contracts on our results of operations over the term of the contracts depends on a number of factors, including the strength of advertising markets, subscription levels and rates for programming, consumer acceptance of our content, and the size of viewer audiences. For example, as the home of the Olympic Games in Europe through 2032, we have been developing and innovating new forms of content in connection with the Olympic Games. Our success with the Olympics depends on audience acceptance of this content. If viewers do not find our Olympic Games content acceptable, we could see low viewership, which could lead to low distribution and advertising revenues and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Failure to renew, renewal with less favorable terms, or termination of our content licenses and similar distribution agreements may cause a decline in our revenue.
Because our content and pay-TV networks are licensed to and distributed through third parties, such as theatrical exhibitors (and in certain international territories, local theater distributors), traditional television and pay-TV broadcasters (such as cable and satellite operators) and operators of digital platforms, which in turn make such content available, directly and indirectly, to consumers, we are dependent upon the maintenance of such licensing and distribution agreements with such third parties. These agreements generally provide for the scope of licensed rights, including geographic territory, exploitation rights, holdbacks and/or other restrictions, including exclusivity or non-exclusivity, window(s) of exploitation (including first and second pay-TV and free to air broadcast), for the level of carriage our networks will receive, such as channel placement and programming package inclusion (widely distributed, broader programming packages compared to lesser distributed, specialized programming packages), and for payment of a license fee to us based on a number of factors, including the scope of the rights granted, the popularity of the content (as measured in the case of films, for example, by box office performance for certain downstream exploitation) and the date of its first theatrical or pay-TV exhibition.
While the number of subscribers associated with our networks impacts our ability to generate advertising revenue, subscription-based revenue also represents a significant portion of our revenue. Our agreements generally have a limited term which varies by territory and distributor, and there can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed in the future or that they will be renewed on terms that are favorable to us. The license fees and other commercial terms that we receive are dependent, among other factors, on the acceptance and performance of our content with consumers. A reduction in the license fees that we receive or in the number of subscribers for which we are paid, including as a result of a loss or reduction in carriage for our networks or a reduction in distributor penetration, including as a result of changes in consumer habits, could adversely affect our distribution revenue. Such a loss or reduction in carriage could also decrease the potential audience for our programs thereby adversely affecting our advertising revenue. Changes in distribution strategy and variations on traditional theatrical distribution and other licensing models, such as shortening traditional windows or making simultaneous the availability of certain films theatrically and on-demand, and other hybrids, may also drive changes in the licensee fees that theatrical exhibitors and distributors and other downstream licensees in the value chain may be willing to pay for content, which may in turn negatively affect our content revenue. As a result of industry consolidation, our distributors have become and may continue to become larger, and as a result have gained or could gain additional market power. Such consolidation gives these distributors leverage in negotiating their distribution agreements with us which could subject our affiliate fee revenue to reduction or discounts, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition.
18

In addition, content distribution and license agreements are complex and individually negotiated. For example, some of our distribution agreements contain “most favored nation” clauses, which typically provide that if we enter into an agreement with another distributor which contains certain more favorable terms, we must offer some of those terms to our existing distributors. If we were to disagree with one of the counterparties on the interpretation of a content distribution and license agreement, it could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as damage our relationship with that counterparty.
We rely on platforms owned by our competitors for digital and linear distribution of our content.
We rely on platforms owned by third parties, some of which compete directly with us or have investments in competing streaming products, to make our content available to our subscribers and viewers. If these third parties do not continue to provide access to our service on their platforms or are unwilling to do so on terms acceptable to us, our business could be adversely affected. If we are not successful in maintaining existing or creating new relationships with these third parties, our ability to retain subscribers and grow our business could be adversely impacted.
Service disruptions or the failure of communications satellites or transmitter facilities we rely upon could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We rely on communications satellites and transmitter facilities and other technical infrastructure, including fiber, to transmit programming to affiliates and other distributors. Shutdowns of communications satellites and transmitter facilities or service disruptions will pose significant risks to our operations. Such disruptions may be caused by power outages, natural disasters, extreme weather, terrorist attacks, war, failures or impairments of communications satellites or on-ground uplinks or downlinks or other technical facilities and services used to transmit programming, failure of service providers to meet contractual requirements, or other similar events. If a communications satellite or other transmission means (e.g., fiber) is not able to transmit our programming, or if any material component thereof fails or becomes inoperable, we may not be able to secure an alternative communications path in a timely manner because, among other factors, there are a limited number of service providers and other means available for the transmission of programming, and any alternatives may require lead time and additional technical resources and infrastructure to implement. If such an event were to occur, there could be a disruption in the delivery of our programming, which could harm our reputation and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Our businesses may be subject to labor disruption.
We and some of our suppliers and business partners retain the services of writers, directors, actors, announcers, athletes, technicians, trade employees and others involved in the development and production of our television programs, feature films and interactive entertainment (e.g., games) who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. If negotiations to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements are not successful or become unproductive, the affected unions could take actions such as strikes, work slowdowns or work stoppages. Strikes, work slowdowns, work stoppages or the possibility of such actions could result in delays in the production of our television programs, feature films and interactive entertainment. We could also incur higher costs from such actions, enter into new collective bargaining agreements or renew collective bargaining agreements on less favorable terms. Many of the collective bargaining agreements that cover individuals providing services to the Company are industry-wide agreements, and we may lack practical control over the negotiations and terms of these agreements. Union or labor disputes or player lock-outs relating to certain professional sports leagues may preclude us from producing and telecasting scheduled games or events and could negatively impact our promotional and marketing opportunities. Depending on their duration, union or labor disputes or player lock-outs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Risks Related to Domestic and Foreign Laws and Regulations; Other Risks Related to International Operations
Changes in domestic and foreign laws and regulations and other risks related to international operations could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Programming services like ours, and the distributors of our services, including cable operators, satellite operators and other multi-channel video programming distributors, are regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC, as well as by state and local governments, in ways that affect the daily conduct of our video content business. These obligations and regulations, among other things, require closed captioning of programming for the hearing impaired, require certain content providers to make available audio descriptions of programming for the visually impaired, limit the amount and content of commercial matter that may be shown during programming aimed primarily at an audience of children aged 12 and under, and require the identification of (or the maintenance of lists of) sponsors of political advertising. See the discussion under “Business – Regulatory Matters” that appears above. The U.S. Congress, the FCC, the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), U.S. state legislatures, and the courts currently have under consideration, and may adopt or interpret in the future, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations of our U.S. media properties or modify the terms under which we offer our services and operate.
19

Following the Merger, our operations through which we distribute programming outside the U.S. have increased significantly. As a result, our business is, and may increasingly be, subject to certain risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include:
•laws and policies affecting trade and taxes, including laws and policies relating to the repatriation of funds and withholding taxes, and changes in these laws;
•local regulatory requirements (and any changes to such requirements), including restrictions on content, censorship, imposition of local content quotas, local production levies and investment obligations, and restrictions or prohibitions on foreign ownership, outsourcing, consumer protection, targeted advertising, intellectual property and related rights, including copyright and rightsholder rights and remuneration;
•our ability to obtain the appropriate licenses and other regulatory approvals we need to distribute content in foreign countries as well as regulatory intervention on how we currently operate, including how we license and distribute content;
•differing degrees of protection for intellectual property and varying attitudes towards the piracy of intellectual property;
•significant fluctuations in foreign currency value;
•capital, currency exchange and central banking controls;
•the instability of foreign economies and governments;
•the potential for political, social, or economic unrest, terrorism, hostilities, cyber-attacks or war, including the war between Russia and Ukraine;
•anti-corruption laws and regulations such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act that impose stringent requirements on how we conduct our foreign operations and changes in these laws and regulations;
•sanction laws and regulations such as those administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control that restrict our dealings with certain sanctioned countries, territories, individuals and entities; these laws and regulations are complex, frequently changing, and increasing in number, and may impose additional prohibitions or compliance obligations on our dealings in certain countries and territories, including sanctions imposed on Russia and certain Ukrainian territories as well as sanctions imposed on China;
•challenges implementing effective controls to monitor business activities across our expanded international operations;
•foreign privacy and data protection laws and regulations and changes in these laws and regulations; and
•shifting consumer preferences regarding the viewing of video programming.
Events or developments related to these and other risks associated with international trade could adversely affect our revenues from non-U.S. sources as well as our costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, some foreign markets where we and our partners operate may be more adversely affected by current economic conditions than the U.S. We also may incur substantial expense as a result of changes, including the imposition of new restrictions, in the existing regulatory, economic or political environment in the regions where we do business.
This is of particular concern in Poland, where we own and operate TVN, a portfolio of free-to-air and pay-TV lifestyle, entertainment, and news networks, which faces ongoing legislative and regulatory risk. In the past, said risk has manifested itself in draft legislation, now abandoned, which would have precluded non-EEA ownership of Polish national broadcasters, and in delays in renewing broadcast licenses. Such delays continue as well as regulatory pressure on some of TVN’s journalism. Similar developments could, directly or indirectly, affect the future operations of our Polish media properties and/or modify the terms under which we offer our services and operate in that market in the future.
The evolving regulatory environment in international markets may also impact strategy, costs and results of operations, including with respect to local programming levies and investment obligations, satisfaction of local content quotas, access to local production incentive schemes, and direct and indirect digital taxes or levies on internet-based programming services.
20

We are subject to domestic and international privacy and data protection laws, which impact our ability to collect, manage, and use personal information. Our efforts to comply with such laws, which are continually evolving, could impose costly obligations on us and generate additional regulatory and litigation risk.
We are subject to domestic and international laws associated with the acquisition, storage, disclosure, use and protection of personal data, including under the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), several comprehensive U.S. state privacy laws, including the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) and the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), and many other international laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are continually evolving and many more U.S. state and federal laws and international laws may pass this year. See the discussion above in “Business – Regulatory Matters”. These evolving privacy, security, and data protection laws may require us to expend significant resources to implement additional data protection measures, and our actual or alleged failure to comply with such laws could result in legal claims, regulatory enforcement actions and significant fines and penalties.
Environmental, social and governance laws and regulations may adversely impact our businesses.
U.S. state and federal regulators, international regulators, investors, consumers and other stakeholders are increasingly focused on environmental, social, and governance (“ESG”) considerations. For example, the SEC has adopted regulations to require disclosures relating to public companies’ management of human capital resources and has proposed rules to enhance and standardize climate-related disclosures; Nasdaq, the exchange where our stock is listed, has implemented board diversity disclosure requirements; the European Union has adopted specific conduct-based directives on ESG; and the U.K. has mandated climate-related disclosures for public companies. These increased disclosure obligations have required and may continue to require us to implement new practices and reporting processes, and have created and will continue to create additional compliance risk.
Additionally, our ESG initiatives and programs may not achieve their intended outcomes. If we are unable to meet our ESG goals or evolving stakeholder expectations and industry standards, or if we are perceived by consumers, stockholders or employees to have not responded appropriately to the growing concern for ESG issues, our reputation, and therefore our ability to sell our products and services, could be negatively impacted. If, as a result of their assessment of our ESG performance, certain investors are unsatisfied with our actions or progress, they may reconsider their investment in our Company. Providers of debt and equity financing may also consider our ESG performance and external ESG ratings (which we have limited ability to influence) in their decision involving our Company, which could impact our cost of capital and adversely affect our business.
Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our operating results and financial conditions.
We have significant operations in a number of foreign jurisdictions and certain of our operations are conducted and certain of our debt obligations are denominated in foreign currencies. The value of these foreign currencies fluctuates relative to the U.S. dollar. As a result, we have exposure to foreign currency risk as we enter into transactions and make investments denominated in multiple currencies. Adverse business performance and financial results from unforeseen changes in foreign currency exchange rates could increase our cost of borrowing or make it more difficult for us to obtain future financing, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial conditions. We manage our exposure to foreign currency risk by entering into derivative instruments with counterparty banks, which exposes us to counterparty credit risk.
Our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, and to prepare those financial statements we must translate the amounts of the assets, liabilities, net sales, other revenues and expenses of our operations outside of the U.S. from local currencies into U.S. dollars using exchange rates for the current period. This exposure to exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our reported results of operations and net asset balances.
Increasing complexity of global tax policy and regulations could increase our tax liability and adversely impact our business and results of operations.
We continue to face the increasing complexity of operating a global business, and we are subject to ever-changing tax policy and regulations around the world. Many foreign jurisdictions are contemplating additional taxes and/or levies on over-the-top services, as well as on media advertising. In addition, many foreign jurisdictions have increased scrutiny and have either changed, or plan to change, their international tax systems due to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting recommendations. These recommendations include, among other things, profit reallocation rules and a 15% global minimum corporate income tax rate. Such recommendations, if implemented, could have a material effect on our income tax liability.
Additional complexity has also arisen with respect to state aid: i.e., state resources used to provide recipients an advantage on a selective basis that has or could distort competition and affect trade between European member states. In recent years the European Commission has increased their scrutiny of state aid and has deviated from historical E.U. state aid practices. We receive material amounts of financial incentives for conducting our content production activities in various jurisdictions that offer such incentives. If the E.U. were to restrict our ability to receive these incentives, such restrictions could have a material impact on our results of operations.
21

Other changes in tax laws and the interpretation thereof could have a material impact on our tax liability. For example, in August 2022, the U.S. government enacted the Inflation Reduction Act which, among other changes, created a new corporate alternative minimum tax (“CAMT”) of 15% for corporations whose average annual adjusted financial statement income for any consecutive 3 tax year periods ending after December 31, 2021 and preceding the tax year exceeds $1 billion, and a 1% excise tax on stock repurchases made by publicly traded U.S. companies. The effective date of these provisions was January 1, 2023, although we await further guidance from the U.S. government on the calculation of the CAMT. Based on that forthcoming guidance, it is possible that the CAMT could result in a material additional tax liability.
Risks Related to Our Financial, Capital and Corporate Structure
Forecasting our financial results requires us to make judgements and estimates which may differ materially from actual results.
Given the dynamic nature of our business, the current uncertain economic climate and the inherent limitations in predicting the future, forecasts of our revenues, adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (as defined in Note 23 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, “Adjusted EBITDA”), free cash flow and subscriber growth, and other financial and operating data, may differ materially from actual results, including as a result of events outside of our control and other risks and uncertainties described herein. Such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock.
Our ability to incur debt and the use of our funds could be limited by the restrictive covenants in the loan agreements for our term loan and revolving credit facility.
The loan agreements for our term loan and revolving credit facility contain restrictive covenants, as well as requirements to comply with certain leverage and other financial maintenance tests. These covenants and requirements could limit our ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, guaranteeing indebtedness and engaging in various types of transactions, including mergers, acquisitions and sales of assets, or taking advantage of other opportunities, which could have an adverse effect on our business.
In addition, credit ratings actions could impact the terms of our loan agreements. A ratings downgrade may increase our borrowing costs, which could diminish operational flexibility and reduce profitability.
We could be unable to obtain cash in amounts sufficient to meet our financial obligations or other commitments.
Our ability to meet our financial obligations and other contractual commitments will depend upon our ability to access cash. We are a holding company, and our sources of cash include our available cash balances, net cash from the operating activities of our subsidiaries, any dividends and interest we may receive from our investments, availability under our credit facilities or any credit facilities that we may obtain in the future and proceeds from any asset sales we may undertake in the future. The ability of our operating subsidiaries, including WarnerMedia Holdings, Inc., Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc., and Discovery Communications, LLC to pay dividends or to make other payments or advances to us will depend on their individual operating results and any statutory, regulatory or contractual restrictions, including restrictions under our credit facilities, to which they may be or may become subject. Under the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, we were subject to U.S. taxes for the deemed repatriation of certain cash balances held by foreign corporations. The Company intends to continue to permanently reinvest these funds outside of the U.S., and current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate them to fund our U.S. operations.
Financial performance for our equity method investments and investments without readily determinable fair value may differ from current estimates.
We have equity investments in several entities and the accounting treatment applied for these investments varies depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our percentage ownership and the level of influence or control we have over the relevant entity. Any losses experienced by these entities could adversely impact our results of operations and the value of our investment. In addition, if these entities were to fail and cease operations, we may lose the entire value of our investment and the stream of any shared profits. Some of our ventures may require additional uncommitted funding. We also have significant investments in entities that we have accounted for as investments without readily determinable fair value. If these entities experience significant losses or were to fail and cease operations, our investments could be subject to impairment and the loss of a part or all of our investment value.
Certain of our businesses are conducted through joint ventures or partnerships with one or more third parties, in which we share ownership, management and profits of the business operation to varying degrees.
Certain of our businesses are conducted through joint ventures or partnerships with one or more third parties, where we have varying degrees of ownership and influence. From time to time, we may disagree with our joint venture partners on the strategy or management of a joint venture business, but may be constrained in our ability to make decisions unilaterally as a result of legal or contractual obligations to our joint venture partners, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
22

We have directors that are also related persons of Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership (“Advance/Newhouse”) and that overlap with those of Liberty Media Corporation (“Liberty Media”), Liberty Global plc (“Liberty Global”), Qurate Retail Group f/k/a Liberty Interactive Corporation (“Qurate Retail”), Liberty Broadband Corporation (“Liberty Broadband”), and Liberty Latin America Ltd (“LLA”), which may lead to conflicting interests for those directors or result in the diversion of business opportunities or other potential conflicts.
Advance/Newhouse owns shares representing approximately 8% of our outstanding common stock. Our board of directors includes Steven A. Miron, the Chief Executive Officer of Advance/Newhouse and Steven O. Newhouse, Co-President of Advance Publications, Inc., which holds interests in Advance/Newhouse and Charter Communications, Inc. (“Charter”). Pursuant to a consent agreement entered into between Advance/Newhouse and the Company in connection with the Merger, the Company designated Mr. Miron and Mr. Newhouse to our board of directors with terms ending in 2025. Mr. Miron is also a member of the board of directors of Charter, of which Liberty Broadband and Advance Publications, Inc. own equity interests.
In addition, Dr. John C. Malone, chairman of Liberty Media, Liberty Global and Liberty Broadband and member of the board of directors of Qurate Retail, serves on our board of directors. Our board of directors also currently includes one other person who is currently a member of the board of directors of Liberty Media, one other person who is currently a member of the board of directors of Liberty Global, and one person who is a currently a member of the board of directors of LLA.
The respective parent companies of Advance/Newhouse and of Liberty Media, Liberty Global, Qurate Retail, Liberty Broadband, and LLA (together, the “Liberty Entities”) own interests in various U.S. and international media, communications and entertainment companies, such as Charter, that have subsidiaries that own or operate domestic or foreign content services that may compete with the content services we offer. We have no rights in respect of U.S. or international content opportunities developed by or presented to the subsidiaries of any Liberty Entities, and the pursuit of these opportunities by such subsidiaries may adversely affect our interests and those of our stockholders.
None of the Liberty Entities own any interest in us. Dr. Malone beneficially owns: shares of Liberty Media representing approximately 48% of the aggregate voting power of its outstanding stock, shares representing approximately 30% of the aggregate voting power of Liberty Global, shares representing approximately 7% of the aggregate voting power of Qurate Retail, shares representing approximately 47% of the aggregate voting power of Liberty Broadband and shares representing less than 1% of our outstanding common stock. Our other directors who are also directors of the Liberty Entities hold stock and stock-based compensation in the Liberty Entities and hold our stock and stock-based compensation.
These ownership interests and/or business positions could create conflicts of interest or the appearance of conflicts of interest when these individuals are faced with decisions that could have different implications for us, Advance/Newhouse and/or the Liberty Entities. For example, there may be the potential for a conflict of interest when we, on the one hand, or Advance/Newhouse and/or one or more of the Liberty Entities, on the other hand, consider acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be suitable for the other.
The members of our board of directors have fiduciary duties to us and our stockholders. Likewise, those persons who serve in similar capacities at Advance/Newhouse or a Liberty Entity have fiduciary duties to those companies. Therefore, such persons may have conflicts of interest or the appearance of conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting both respective companies, and there can be no assurance that the terms of any transactions will be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries as would be the case in the absence of a conflict of interest.
It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if such acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders.
In connection with the Merger, we agreed with AT&T that for a two-year period following the Merger, we would not, among other things and subject to certain exceptions, enter into any transaction or series of transactions as a result of which one or more persons would acquire an amount of stock of our Company that, when combined with certain other changes in ownership of our stock (including the Merger), would equal or exceed 45% of the outstanding stock of our Company. Further, certain provisions of our charter and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include the following:
•authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt;
•classifying our board of directors with staggered three-year terms until the election of directors at our 2025 annual meeting of stockholders, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of our board of directors;
•limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders;
•prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring stockholder action to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders;
23

•establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings;
•the existence of authorized and unissued stock which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of our management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us.
In addition, under our charter, we have not opted out of the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”), and we are therefore governed by Section 203. Accordingly, it is expected that Section 203 will have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions that our board of directors does not approve in advance and that Section 203 may discourage takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price of WBD capital stock.
These provisions are intended to protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. As noted above, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders. Accordingly, if our board of directors determines that a potential business combination transaction is not in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders, but certain stockholders believe that such a transaction would be beneficial to us and our stockholders, such stockholders may elect to sell their shares in WBD and the market price of WBD common stock could decrease.
If Advance/Newhouse were to sell its shares following the exercise of its registration rights, it may cause a significant decline in our stock price, even if our business is doing well.
Advance/Newhouse and Advance Newhouse Partnership (“ANP”) have been granted registration rights covering all of the shares of common stock now held or hereafter acquired by them. Subject to certain limitations and restrictions, including customary “blackout periods”, Advance/Newhouse and ANP have the right to assign any or all of their registration rights to their affiliates and successors, as well as a specified family foundation. The shares held by Advance/Newhouse and ANP are registered for resale pursuant to our registration statement on Form S-3 filed April 22, 2022. Any future exercise of registration rights or sale of large amounts of our common stock in the public market could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.
General Risks
We face cybersecurity and similar risks, which could result in the disclosure of confidential information, disruption of our programming services, damage to our brands and reputation, legal exposure and financial losses.
We and our partners rely on various technology systems in connection with the production, distribution and broadcast of our programming, and our on-line, mobile and app offerings, as well as our internal systems, involve the storage and transmission of personal and proprietary information. Consistently, cyber criminals and other malicious actors target us and our service providers. Our systems and our service providers’ systems have been breached in the past due to cybersecurity attacks. These systems may continue to be breached in the future due to employee error or misconduct, system vulnerabilities, malicious code, hacking and phishing attacks, or otherwise. If our information security systems or data are compromised in a material way, such compromises could result in a disruption of services or a reduction of the revenues we are able to generate from such services, damage to our brands and reputation, a loss of confidence in the security of our offerings and services, and significant legal and financial exposure, each of which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business.
The risk of cyberattacks has also increased and will continue to increase in connection with Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. In light of the Ukraine war and other geopolitical events and dynamics, including ongoing tensions with Russia, China, North Korea, Iran and other states, state-sponsored parties or their supporters may launch retaliatory cyberattacks, and may attempt to cause supply chain disruptions, or carry out other geopolitically motivated retaliatory actions that may adversely disrupt or degrade our operations and may result in data compromise. These security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources/malicious actors, including, but not limited to, persons who constitute an insider threat, who are involved with organized crime, or who may be linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. Those same parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers, or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients through social engineering, phishing, mobile phone malware, and other methods.
24

Theft of our intellectual property and unauthorized duplication, distribution and exhibitions of our intellectual property may decrease revenues and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
The success of our business depends in part on effective and deterrent laws efficiently implemented by law enforcement to enable our ability to maintain and enforce the intellectual property rights underlying our content and brands. We are a global media and entertainment company, and piracy or other infringement of our intellectual property (including digital content, feature films, television programming, gaming, and other content), brands and other intellectual property has the potential to materially adversely affect us. Piracy is particularly prevalent in parts of the world that do not effectively enforce intellectual property rights and laws. Even in territories like the U.S. that have stronger intellectual property laws, legal frameworks that are unresponsive to modern realities, combined with the lack of effective technological prevention and enforcement measures, may impede our enforcement efforts. Our enforcement activities depend in part on third parties, including technology and platform providers, whose cooperation and effectiveness cannot be assured to any degree. In addition, technological advances that allow the almost instantaneous unauthorized copying and downloading of content into digital formats without any degradation of quality from the original facilitate the rapid creation, transmission, and sharing of high-quality unauthorized copies. This is also true for broadcast signals, which can be retransmitted without any degradation of quality from the original via unauthorized services. Unauthorized distribution of copyrighted material over the internet is a threat to copyright owners’ ability to maintain the exclusive control over their copyrighted material and thus the value of their property. The proliferation of unauthorized use of our content may have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. For example, it may reduce the revenue that we potentially could receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content. We may also need to spend significant amounts of money on improvement of technological platform security and enforcement activities, including litigation, to protect our intellectual property rights.
Any impairment of our intellectual property rights, including due to changes in U.S. or foreign laws, the absence of effective legal protections or enforcement measures, or the inability to negotiate license or distribution agreements with third parties, could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As a global company, we are subject to laws in the U.S. and abroad, as well as trade agreements which may limit our ability to exploit our intellectual property. For example, in certain countries, including China, laws and regulations limit the number of foreign films exhibited in such countries in a calendar year.
From time to time, third parties may also challenge the validity or scope of our intellectual property and may assert infringement claims against us, and the success of any such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights. Irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources which could have an adverse effect on our operations.
Our success depends on attracting, developing, motivating and retaining key employees and creative talent within our business. Significant shortfalls in recruitment or retention, or failure to adequately motivate or compensate employees or creative talent, could adversely affect our ability to compete and achieve our strategic goals.
Attracting, developing, motivating and retaining talented employees are essential to the successful delivery of our products and services and success in the marketplace. Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our corporate and divisional executive teams and entertainment personalities, and the ability to attract and retain these talented employees and personalities is critical in the development and delivery of products and services, which is an integral component of our growth strategy. Competition for employees and personalities can be intense and if we are unable to successfully integrate, motivate and reward our current employees, we may not be able to retain them. If we are unable to retain these employees or attract new employees in the future, our ability to effectively compete with our competitors and to grow our business could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, following the Merger, we have undertaken a number of restructuring and transformation initiatives, including headcount reduction. This headcount reduction and other restructuring initiatives could disrupt our operations, adversely impact employee morale and our reputation as an employer, which could make it more difficult for us to retain existing employees and hire new employees in the future, distract management and harm our business overall.
In addition, we employ or contract with talent who may have loyal audiences. These individuals are important to audience endorsement of our programs and other content. There can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or retain their current audiences. If we fail to retain or attract key individuals or if our talent loses their current audience base or suffer negative publicity, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.
The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile and may continue to be volatile due to circumstances beyond our control.
The market price of our common stock has fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate, widely, due to many factors, some of which may be beyond our control. These factors include, without limitation:
•actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial and operating results;
25

•comments by or expectations of securities analysts or other third parties, including blogs, articles, message boards, and social and other media relating to the Merger or otherwise;
•public perception of us, our on-air talent, our competitors, or industry;
•development and provision of programming for new television and telecommunications technologies and the success of our HBO Max and discovery+ streaming products;
•spending on domestic and foreign television advertising;
•changes in the distribution and viewing of television programming, including the expanded deployment of personal video recorders, subscription video on demand, internet protocol television, mobile personal devices, and personal tablets and their impact on television advertising revenue;
•fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and
•overall general market fluctuations.
Strategic transactions and acquisitions present many risks and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of any transaction.
From time to time we may enter into strategic transactions, make investments or make acquisitions, such as the Merger. Our success may depend on opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. Such transactions may result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, use of our cash resources, and incurrence of debt and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. We may also incur unanticipated expenses, fail to realize anticipated benefits, have difficulty integrating the acquired businesses, disrupt relationships with current and new employees, subscribers, affiliates and vendors, incur significant debt, or have to delay or not proceed with announced transactions.
Additionally, regulatory agencies, such as the FCC or U.S. Department of Justice may impose additional restrictions on the operation of our business as a result of our seeking regulatory approvals for any strategic transactions and significant acquisitions. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business.
Our participation in multiemployer defined benefit pension plans could subject us to liabilities that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We contribute to various multiemployer defined benefit pension plans (the “multiemployer plans”) under the terms of collective bargaining agreements that cover certain of our union-represented employees. Following the completion of the Merger, we assumed certain of the obligations under these multiemployer plans with respect to transferred employees from the WarnerMedia Business. The risks of participation in these multiemployer plans are different from single-employer pension plans in that: (1) contributions made by us to the multiemployer plans may be used to provide benefits to employees of other participating employers; (2) if we choose to stop participating or substantially reduce participation in certain of these multiemployer plans, we may be required to pay those plans an amount based on the underfunded status of the plan, which is referred to as a withdrawal liability; and (3) actions taken by any participating employer that lead to a deterioration of the financial health of a multiemployer plan may result in the unfunded obligations of the multiemployer plan being borne by its remaining participating employers, including us. While we do not expect any of the multiemployer plans to which we contribute to be individually significant to us as a whole, as of December 31, 2022, we were an employer that provided more than 5% of total contributions to certain of the multiemployer plans in which we participate.
To the extent that U.S.-registered multiemployer plans are underfunded, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Multiemployer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980 (collectively, “ERISA”), may subject us to substantial liabilities in the event of a complete or partial withdrawal from, or upon termination of, such plans. We currently contribute to, and in the past the WarnerMedia Business has contributed to, multiemployer plans that are underfunded, and, therefore, could have potential liability associated with a voluntary or involuntary withdrawal from, or termination of, such plans. In addition, for a multiemployer plan in endangered, seriously endangered or critical status, additional required contributions, generally in the form of surcharges on contributions otherwise required, and benefit reductions may apply if such plan is determined to be underfunded, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to adequately mitigate these costs.
26

As of December 31, 2022, two of the multiemployer plans in which we participate were underfunded, but neither plan was considered to be in endangered, seriously endangered or critical status. The amount of funds we may be obligated to contribute to multiemployer plans in the future cannot be estimated, as these amounts are based on future levels of work of the union-represented employees covered by the multiemployer plans, investment returns and the funding status of such plans. We do not currently intend to withdraw from the multiemployer plans in which we participate, and we are not aware of circumstances that would reasonably lead to material claims against the us in connection with the multiemployer plans in which we participate. There can be no assurance, however, that we will not be assessed liabilities in the future. Potential withdrawal liabilities, requirements to pay increased contributions, and/or surcharges in connection with any multiemployer plans in which we participate could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted by the outcome of uncertainties related to litigation.
From time to time, we may be involved in a number of legal claims, regulatory investigations, litigation actions (asserted individually and/or on behalf of a class), and arbitration proceedings. We may be subject to a number of lawsuits both in the U.S. and in foreign countries, including, at any particular time, claims relating to antitrust, intellectual property, employment, wage and hour, consumer privacy, regulatory and tax proceedings, contractual and commercial disputes, and the production, distribution, and licensing of our content. We may also spend substantial resources complying with various government standards, which may entail related investigations and litigation. We may incur significant expenses defending such suits or government charges and may be required to pay amounts or otherwise change our operations in ways that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. This could result in an increase in our cost for defense or settlement of claims or indemnification obligations if we were to be found liable in excess of our historical experience. Even if we believe a claim is without merit, and/or we ultimately prevail, defending against the claim could be time-consuming and costly and divert our management’s attention and resources away from our business.
In addition, our insurance may not be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to pending and future claims and our current levels of insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable prices. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.